you
this lecture is about the mixture model
estimation in this lecture we're going
to continue discussing probabilistic a
topic models in particular we're going
to talk about how to estimated the
parameters of a mixture model so let's
first look at our motivation for using a
mixture model and we hope to factor out
the background words from the topic
water distribution so the idea is to
assume that the text data actually
contains two kinds of words one kind is
from the background here so the is a we
etc and the other kind is from our topic
water distribution that were interested
in so in order to solve this problem of
factoring out background words we can
set up our mixture model as follows
we're going to assume that we already
know the parameters of all the the
values for all the parameters in the
mixture model except for the word
distribution of theta sub D which is our
target so this is the case of
customizing probably's model so that we
embedded unknown variables that we are
interested in but we're going to
simplify other things we're going to
assume we have knowledge about others
and this is a powerful way of
customizing a model for a particular
need now you can imagine we could have
assumed that we also don't know the
background waters unity but in this case
our goal is the fact out precisely those
high probability background words so we
assume the background model is already
fixed and the problem here is how can
adjust the theta sub D in order to
maximize the probability of the observer
documenter here and we assume all the
other pandas are now now although we
designed the model heuristic Li to try
to affect out these background words
it's unclear whether
if we use maximum likelihood estimator
we will actually end up having a water
distribution where the common words
right there will be indeed having
smaller probabilities than before so now
in this case it turns out that the
answer is yes and when we set up the
problem is more in this way when we use
maximum likelihood estimator we will end
up having a word decision that where the
common words will be factored out by the
use of the background distribution so to
understand why this is so it's useful to
examine the behavior of a mixture model
so we are going to look at a very very
simple case in order to understand some
interesting behaviors of a mixture
bottle the observe the patterns here
actually are generalizable to mixture
model in general but it's much easier to
understand this behavior when we use a
very simple case like what we're seeing
here so specifically in this case let's
assume that the probability of choosing
each of the two models is the exact same
so we're gonna flip a fair coin to
decide which model the news further more
we open to assume there are precisely
two words the text obviously this is a
very naive oversimplification of the
actual text but again it is useful to
examine the behavior in such a special
case so we further assume that the
background model gives probably 0.92 the
world.the and text point 1 now let's
also assume that our data is extremely
simple the document has just the two
words text lambda so now let's write
down the likelihood function in such a
case first what's the probability of
text and what's the problem any of the I
hope by this point and you will be able
to write it down
so the probability of text is basically
sum over two cases where each case
corresponds to
each of the water distribution and it
accounts for the two ways of generating
text and inside each case we have the
probability of choosing the model which
is 0.25 multiplied by the probability of
observing text from that model
similarly the would have a probability
of the same form just was different
exact probabilities so naturally our
likelihood function is just the product
of the two so it's very easy to see that
once you understand that what's the
probability of each word which is also
why it's so important to understand
what's exactly the probability of
observing each water from such a mixture
model now the interesting question now
is how can we then optimize this like a
hope
well you will notice that there are only
two variables they are precisely the two
probabilities of the two words text and
they're given by theta sub D and this is
because we have assumed that all the
other parameters are known so now the
question is a very simple algebra
question right so we have a simple
expression with two variables and we
hope to choose the values of these two
variables maximize this function and
exercise that we have seen in some
simple algebra problems and note that
the two probabilities must sum to one so
there's some constraint if they were low
constrained of course we would set both
probabilities who they are maximum value
which would be one to maximize this but
we can't do that because text lambda
must have sum to one we can't give both
a property in there one so now the
question is how should we allocate the
probability the mass between the two
words what do you think now it would be
useful to look at this formula for a
moment and to see what intuitively what
we do in order to set these
probabilities to maximize the value of
this function
okay if we look into this further and
then we'll see some interesting behavior
of the two component models in that
there will be collaborating to maximize
the probability of the observed data
which is dictated by the maximum
likelihood estimator but they are also
competing in some way and in particular
there will be competing on the world and
they will tend to bet high probabilities
on different words to avoid this
competition in some sense or to gain
advantage in this competition so again
looking at this objective function and
we ever constrained on the two
probabilities now if you look at the
formula intuitively you might feel that
you want to set the probability of text
to be somewhat larger than though and
this intuition can be were supported by
mathematical effect which is when the
sum of two variables is a constant then
the product of them which is maximum
when they are equal and this is the fact
that we know from algebra now if we plug
that in we'll me will it would mean that
we have to make the two probabilities
equal and when we make them equal and
then if we consider the constraint we
can easily solve this problem and the
solution is the probability of Texas
would be 0.09 and probability of the is
point one and as you can see indeed the
probability of Texas is not much larger
than problem in India of the and this is
not the case when we have just one
distribution and this is clearly because
of the use of the background model which
assign the very high probability to the
and low probability to text and if you
look at the equation you will see
obviously some interaction of the two
distributions here right in particular
you will see in order to make them equal
and then the probability assigned by C
da sub D must be higher for a word that
has a smaller probability given by the
background I and this
is obvious from examining this equation
because the background part is weak for
text it's a small so in order to
compensate for that we must make the
probability of text of the given by
theta sub D somewhat a larger so that
the two sides can be balanced so this is
in fact a very general behavior of this
mixture model and that is if one
distribution assigns a high probability
to one more than another that the other
distribution will tend to do the
opposite basically it would discourage
the other distributions will do the same
and this is to balance them out so that
we can account for all on the world and
this also means that by using a
background model that is fixed to assign
high probabilities to background words
we can indeed encourage the unknown
topic of water dissipation to assign
smaller probabilities for such common
words instead put more probability mass
of the content words that cannot be
explained well by the background on the
model meaning that they have a very
small probability from the background
model like text here
you